genius billionaire and playboy Tony
Stark who has inherited the defense
contractor Stark Industries from his
father is in war-torn Afghanistan with
his friend and military liaison
Lieutenant Colonel James Rhodes to
demonstrate the new Jericho missile the
convoy is ambushed and Stark is
critically wounded by one of his own
rocket-propelled grenades he is captured
and imprisoned in a cave by the
terrorist group the ten rings and an
electromagnet is grafted into his chest
by fellow captive yinsen to keep the
shrapnel shell shards that wounded him
from reaching his heart and killing him
star Canyon sance secretly built a
powerful electric generator called an
arc reactor to power Starks
electromagnet and a suit of power armor
to aid in their escape although they
keep the suit hidden almost to
completion the ten rings attacked the
workshop when they discover their
intentions yinsen sacrifices himself to
divert them while that suit powers up
the armors stark battles his way out of
the cave to find the dying instant then
in anger burns the ten rings weapons and
flies away crashing in the desert and
destroying the suit after being rescued
by Rhodes stark returns home and
announces that his company will no
longer manufacture weapons Obadiah Stane
his father's old partner the company's
manager advises Stark that this may ruin
Stark Industries and his father's like a
seat in his home workshop Stark builds
an improved version of a suit as well as
a more powerful arc reactor for his
chest personal assistant Pepper Potts
places the original reactor inside a
small glass showcase no stain requests
details
stark keeps his work to himself at a
charity event held by Stark Industries
reporter Christine Everhart informs
Stark that his company's weapons
including the Jericho were recently
delivered to the ten rings and are being
used to attack Hinson's home village
film mera Sark also learned Stane is
trying to replace him as head of the
company and raged by these revelations
Stark Don's his new armor and flies to
Afghanistan where he saves the incensed
village
while flying home Stark is shot up by
two f-22 Raptor fighter jets he reveals
a secret identity to Rhodes over the
phone in an attempt to end the attack
meanwhile the ten rings gather the
pieces of Starks prototype suit and meet
with Stane who subdues razza with a
sonic device and has the rest of the
group killed
Stane has a new suit reverse engineered
from the wreckage seeking to find any
other weapons delivered to the ten rings
Stark sends pepper to hack into the
company computer system from staines
office she discovers Dana's been
supplying the terrorists and hired the
ten rings to kill Stark but the group
reneged Potts meets with agent Phil
Coulson of shield a counterterrorism
agency to inform him of staines
activities dane scientists cannot
duplicate Starks arc reactor so stain
ambushes start at home and takes his
though stark manages to get his original
reactor to replace the taken one pots
and several shield agents attempt to
arrest stain but he dons his suit and
attacks them stark fight stain but his
outmatched without his new reactor to
run his suit at full capacity Stark lers
stain atop the Stark Industries building
and instructs Potts to overload the
large arc reactor there this unleashes a
massive electrical surge that causes
stain on his armor to fall into the
exploding reactor killing him the next
day at a press conference stark admits
to being the superhero the press has
dubbed Iron Man truth is
I am Iron Man in a post-credits scene
shield director Nick Fury visits stark
at home telling him that Iron Man is not
the only superhero in the world and
explaining that he wants to discuss the
Avengers initiative